UTAT Space Systems
JavaScript must be enabled in order to use Notion.
Please enable JavaScript to continue.
Skip to content
UTAT Space Systems
Get Notion free
UTAT Space Systems
Welcome to the University of Toronto Aerospace Team Space Systems Division
. We’re glad you’ve decided to embark on our journey with us. We’re a team of tinkerers, explorers, and innovators. If you dream of building space hardware and making the world a better place through technological innovation and engineering, this is the place for you. Let’s go to space!
"To the stars –
with friends!"
New Member Onboarding
Check out this page to make sure you join all the essential platforms:
CB-01: General Member Guideline
Meeting Schedule
The team meets every Saturday for our work sessions in Bahen and Myhal.
EVENT
TIME
ABOUT
Space Systems Meeting
12:00-1:30pm
The place for inter-team technical discussions. May begin with team-wide announcements or onboarding presentations, organized by the
Director of Space Systems
. The
Head of Project Management
and
Systems Design Lead
run the technical discussions, guidelines on which can be found below.
Subteam Meetings
2:00-5:00pm
Sessions in which general members meet with their subsystem to get design work done.
Worksessions
Weeknights
Some teams hold worksessions on weekday evenings in the lab. Check with your lead!
Need to discuss something in
Systems
?
Meeting Locations
Google Docs
Space Systems Room Assignments
​
Winter 2026 Schedule
Date
Topics
January 10
UTAT is back! First meeting of the semester.
17
Assembly procedure big meeting
24
New members!!
31
February 7
14
Reading week starts - no meeting
21
Reading week ends
28
March 7
14
21
28
April 4
Last meeting of the Winter term - Exam Hiatus starts
Resources
Tools & Platforms
My Dashboard
The Zen of Engineering
The Library of Babel
Email Templates
Mental Health Resources
Anonymous Feedback Form
Team Artifacts
Team Instructions
Teams
Team Roles
Team Ledger
Team Roster
Roadmap
Meeting Notes
Component Compendium
Lab Space
Socials
UTAT Website
YouTube
Spotify
Google Photos
LinkedIn
​
Instagram
TikTok
Missions
No results
Our Mission
The Space Systems division designs small satellites—specifically CubeSats—to provide students with educational opportunities in aerospace and systems design, assembly integration and testing (AIT), mission planning, and leadership. Members gain in-depth experience working on satellite missions in a way otherwise inaccessible to undergraduate students.
We are passionate about developing low-cost, miniaturized systems to address problems that have yet to be solved. Many of our open-source designs can be used for other amateur satellites and student satellite design teams. We are a fully student-run, student-funded satellite design team based out of Toronto, Canada since 2014.
Read more about our mission statement here:
UTAT Team Goals
Fall 2024
ALT
Values
UTAT Space Systems has a track record of making ambitions come true. We’re fueled by a pioneering spirit that carries us above and beyond. And together we enable highly skilled students to continually push boundaries, tackle big challenges, and imagine solutions that inspire and endure.
Moonshot Thinking
Constantly seek new opportunities for learning and improvement. Do the hard stuff. Be visionary. Encourage innovation by giving others the freedom to try and fail. Push the technological envelope. Reach for the stars.
Tenacity
​
When things explode, admire the fireworks, and then get ready to make another attempt.
Empowerment
​
Grow psychological safety and camaraderie to give everyone a voice. When humans work together, their whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Trust the team.
Inspiration
​
Fueled by our love of space, we’re driven to solve challenging problems, lead the charge, and awaken that same drive all through mentorship. We strive to bring up the best engineers of our generation, and jump-start their careers in the aerospace field and beyond.
Continuous Improvement
​
The decisions made today define where we will be tomorrow. Learn from team veterans so that one day, you may become a veteran yourself. Pass on knowledge so that the team of the future may stand on your shoulders. You run so they can fly.
Teamwork
​
The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Work, learn, and grow together through leadership. Tackling difficult problems is more fun and rewarding as a multiplayer game.